W-10942360-Agent-App-Validator-Service-LDS (#597)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/rtm-agent-app-validator.adoc

        errorMessage: 'I am sorry, you are not allowed to deploy in this Cluster'
----

It also contains the following values that are injected by the service:

[%header,cols="15a,30a"]
|===
|Key |Description
|`_APPLICATION_NAME` |A string value that represents the name of the application.
|`_APPLICATION_FILE_PATH` |A string value that represents the path of the temporary file used to deploy the application.
|`_APPLICATION_PROPERTIES` |A Map<String, String> that represents the application properties.
|===

=== Implement Business Logic

Let’s consider that every application deployed in the Mule runtime must have an application property called _business_, the value represents the department owner of the application and the Runtime is exclusively for the Finance department.

[source,java,linenums]
----
    String applicationBusiness =
       (applicationProperties == null)
          ? null
          : applicationProperties.get("business");

    if (applicationBusiness != null && applicationBusiness.equals(allowedBusiness)) {
        LOGGER.info(welcomeMessage);
        return;
    }

    throw new ArtifactValidationException(errorMessage);
----

=== Implement Custom Exceptions

> Let’s create a custom exception that represent in a specific way the previous error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s create a custom exception that represents the previous error.
```

In the package `org.example`, add a new package called exceptions and create the following class:

[source,java,linenums]
----
public class BusinessNotAllowedException extends ApplicationValidationException {

    public BusinessNotAllowedException(String message) {
        super(message);
    }
}
----

In the project directory layout, now we can see:

[source,java,linenums]
----
./mule-agent-hello-validator/src/main/java/org/example/agent/exceptions
./mule-agent-hello-validator/src/main/java/org/example/agent/exceptions/BusinessNotAllowedException.java
----

Replace the generic `ApplicationValidationException` to `BusinessNotAllowedException`:

[source,java,linenums]
----
    throw new BusinessNotAllowedException(errorMessage);
----

> === Add Guice Configuration

Reviewer: Add the Guice Configuration

Author: Applied!

    // Validator configuration values
    String business = (String) args.get("business");
    String welcomeMessage = (String) args.get("welcomeMessage");
    String errorMessage = (String) args.get("errorMessage");

    LOGGER.info("Values injected by the service:");
    LOGGER.info("\tApplication name: {}", applicationName);
    LOGGER.info("\tApplication file path: {}", applicationFilePath);
    LOGGER.info("\tApplication properties: {}", applicationProperties);

    LOGGER.info("Validator configurations:");
    LOGGER.info("\tBusiness: {}", business);
    LOGGER.info("\tWelcome message: {}", welcomeMessage);
    LOGGER.info("\tError message: {}", errorMessage);
}
----

==== Update the mule-agent.yml File

Add the validation configuration in the service:

[source,java,linenums]
----
services:
  mule.agent.application.validator.service:
    enabled: true
    validators:
    - type: helloValidator
      name: defaultHelloValidator
      enabled: true
      args:
        business: finance
        welcomeMessage: 'Hi, welcome to Finance Cluster Runtimes'
        errorMessage: 'I am sorry, you are not allowed to be deployed in this Cluster'
----

> === Start the Mule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Start Mule
```

[source,console,linenums]
----
curl -X PUT 'http://localhost:9999/mule/applications/app-01' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '{
  "url": "file:/tmp/app-01.jar",
  "configuration": {
    "mule.agent.application.properties.service": {
      "applicationName": "app-01",
      "properties": {
          "business": "finance"
      }
    }
  }
}'
----

Response:

[source,console,linenums]
----
{
  "application": {
    "name": "app-01"
  },
  "status": "Deployment attempt started"
}
----

Console logs:

[source,console,linenums]
----
MuleAgentHelloValidator: Values injected by the service:
MuleAgentHelloValidator:   Application name: app-01
MuleAgentHelloValidator:   Application file path: /tmp/mule-received-artifact-1793122713159733968/app-01.jar
MuleAgentHelloValidator:   Application properties: {business=finance}
MuleAgentHelloValidator: Validator configurations:
MuleAgentHelloValidator:   Allowed Business: finance
MuleAgentHelloValidator:   Welcome message: Hi, welcome to Finance Cluster Runtimes
MuleAgentHelloValidator:   Error message: I am sorry you not allowed to be deployed in this Cluster
MuleAgentHelloValidator: Hi, welcome to Finance Cluster Runtimes
----

> == Encrypt Values in the validators configuration

Reviewer: Should this be validator configuration instead of validators configuration?

Author: Agree! Applied, and capitalized.
